a figure in rhetoric that drink, being poured out of a cup into a glass, by filling the one doth empty the other; for all your writers do consent that ipse is he: now, you are not ipse, for I am he.
WILLIAM	Which he, sir?
TOUCHSTONE	He, sir, that must marry this woman. Therefore, you
clown, abandon,--which is in the vulgar leave,--the
society,--which in the boorish is company,--of this
female,--which in the common is woman; which
together is, abandon the society of this female, or,
clown, thou perishest; or, to thy better
understanding, diest; or, to wit I kill thee, make
thee away, translate thy life into death, thy
liberty into bondage: I will deal in poison with
thee, or in bastinado, or in steel; I will bandy
with thee in faction; I will o'errun thee with
policy; I will kill thee a hundred and fifty ways:
therefore tremble and depart.
AUDREY	Do, good William.
WILLIAM	God rest you merry, sir.
[Exit]
[Enter CORIN]
CORIN	Our master and mistress seeks you; come, away, away!
TOUCHSTONE	Trip, Audrey! trip, Audrey! I attend, I attend.
[Exeunt]
AS YOU LIKE IT
ACT V
SCENE II	The forest.
[Enter ORLANDO and OLIVER]
ORLANDO	Is't possible that on so little acquaintance you
should like her? that but seeing you should love
her? and loving woo? and, wooing, she should
grant? and will you persever to enjoy her?
OLIVER	Neither call the giddiness of it in question, the
poverty of her, the small acquaintance, my sudden
wooing, nor her sudden consenting; but say with me,
I love Aliena; say with her that she loves me;
consent with both that we may enjoy each other: it
shall be to your good; for my father's house and all
the revenue that was old Sir Rowland's will I
estate upon you, and here live and die a shepherd.
ORLANDO	You have my consent. Let your wedding be to-morrow:
thither will I invite the duke and all's contented
followers. Go you and prepare Aliena; for look
you, here comes my Rosalind.
[Enter ROSALIND]
ROSALIND	God save you, brother.
OLIVER	And you, fair sister.
[Exit]
ROSALIND	O, my dear Orlando, how it grieves me to see thee
wear thy heart in a scarf!
ORLANDO	It is my arm.
ROSALIND	I thought thy heart had been wounded with the claws
of a lion.
ORLANDO	Wounded it is, but with the eyes of a lady.
ROSALIND	Did your brother tell you how I counterfeited to
swoon when he showed me your handkerchief?
ORLANDO	Ay, and greater wonders than that.
ROSALIND	O, I know where you are: nay, 'tis true: there was
never any thing so sudden but the fight of two rams
and Caesar's thrasonical brag of 'I came, saw, and
overcame:' for your brother and my sister no sooner
met but they looked, no sooner looked but they
loved, no sooner loved but they sighed, no sooner
sighed but they asked one another the reason, no
sooner knew the reason but they sought the remedy;
and in these degrees have they made a pair of stairs
to marriage which they will climb incontinent, or
else be incontinent before marriage: they are in
the very wrath of love and they will together; clubs
cannot part them.
ORLANDO	They shall be married to-morrow, and I will bid the
duke to the nuptial. But, O, how bitter a thing it
is to look into happiness through another man's
eyes! By so much the more shall I to-morrow be at
the height of heart-heaviness, by how much I shall
think my brother happy in having what he wishes for.
ROSALIND	Why then, to-morrow I cannot serve your turn for Rosalind?
ORLANDO	I can live no longer by thinking.
ROSALIND	I will weary you then no longer with idle talking.
Know of me then, for now I speak to some purpose,
that I know you are a gentleman of good conceit: I
speak not this that you should bear a good opinion
of my knowledge, insomuch I say I know you are;
neither do I labour for a greater esteem than may in
some little measure draw a belief from you, to do
yourself good and not to grace me. Believe then, if
you please, that I can do strange things: I have,
since I was three year old, conversed with a
magician, most profound in his art and yet not
damnable. If you do love Rosalind so near the heart
as your gesture cries it out, when your brother
marries Aliena, shall you marry her: I know into
what straits of fortune she is driven; and it is
not impossible to me, if it appear not inconvenient
to you, to set her before your eyes tomorrow human
as she is and without any danger.
ORLANDO	Speakest thou in sober meanings?
ROSALIND	By my life, I do; which I tender dearly, though I
say I am a magician. Therefore, put you in your
best array: bid your friends; for if you will be
married to-morrow, you shall, and to Rosalind, if you will.
[Enter SILVIUS and PHEBE]
Look, here comes a lover of mine and a lover of hers.
PHEBE	Youth, you have done me much ungentleness,
To show the letter that I writ to you.
ROSALIND	I care not if I have: it is my study
To seem despiteful and ungentle to you:
You are there followed by a faithful shepherd;
Look upon him, love him; he worships you.
PHEBE	Good shepherd, tell this youth what 'tis to love.
SILVIUS	It is to be all made of sighs and tears;
And so am I for Phebe.
PHEBE	And I for Ganymede.
ORLANDO	And I for Rosalind.
ROSALIND	And I for no woman.
SILVIUS	It is to be all made of faith and service;
And so am I for Phebe.
PHEBE	And I for Ganymede.
ORLANDO	And I for Rosalind.
ROSALIND	And I for no woman.
SILVIUS	It is to be all made of fantasy,
All made of passion and all made of wishes,
All adoration, duty, and observance,
All humbleness, all patience and impatience,
All purity, all trial, all observance;
And so am I for Phebe.
PHEBE	And so am I for Ganymede.
ORLANDO	And so am I for Rosalind.
ROSALIND	And so am I for no woman.
PHEBE	If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
SILVIUS	If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
ORLANDO	If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
ROSALIND	Who do you speak to, 'Why blame you me to love you?'
ORLANDO	To her that is not here, nor doth not hear.
ROSALIND	Pray you, no more of this; 'tis like the howling
of Irish wolves against the moon.
[To SILVIUS]
I will help you, if I can:
[To PHEBE]
I would love you, if I could. To-morrow meet me all together.
[To PHEBE]
I will marry you, if ever I marry woman, and I'll be
married to-morrow:
[To ORLANDO]
I will satisfy you, if ever I satisfied man, and you
shall be married to-morrow:
[To SILVIUS]
I will content you, if what pleases you contents
you, and you shall be married to-morrow.
[To ORLANDO]
As you love Rosalind, meet:
[To SILVIUS]
as you love Phebe, meet: and as I love no woman,
I'll meet. So fare you well: I have left you commands.
SILVIUS	I'll not fail, if I live.
PHEBE	Nor I.
ORLANDO	Nor I.
[Exeunt]
AS YOU LIKE IT
ACT V
SCENE III	The forest.
[Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY]
TOUCHSTONE	To-morrow is the joyful day, Audrey; to-morrow will
we be married.
AUDREY	I do desire it with all my heart; and I hope it is
no dishonest desire to desire to be a woman of the
world. Here comes two of the banished duke's pages.
[Enter two Pages]
First Page	Well met, honest gentleman.
TOUCHSTONE	By my troth, well met. Come, sit, sit, and a song.
Second Page	We are for you: sit i' the middle.
First Page	Shall we clap into't roundly, without hawking or
spitting or saying we are hoarse, which are the only
prologues to a bad voice?
Second Page	I'faith, i'faith; and both in a tune, like two
gipsies on a horse.
SONG.
It was a lover and his lass,
With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino,
That o'er the green corn-field did pass
In the spring time, the only pretty ring time,
When birds do sing, hey ding a ding, ding:
Sweet lovers love the spring.
Between the acres of the rye,
With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino
These pretty country folks would lie,
In spring time, &c.
This carol they began that hour,
With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino,
How that a life was but a flower
In spring time, &c.
And therefore take the present time,
With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino;
For love is crowned with the prime
In spring time, &c.
TOUCHSTONE	Truly, young gentlemen, though there was no great
matter in the ditty, yet the note was very
untuneable.
First Page	You are deceived, sir: we kept time, we lost not our time.
TOUCHSTONE	By my troth, yes; I count it but time lost to hear
such a foolish song. God be wi' you; and God mend
your voices! Come, Audrey.
[Exeunt]
AS YOU LIKE IT
ACT V
SCENE IV	The forest.
[Enter DUKE SENIOR, AMIENS, JAQUES, ORLANDO, OLIVER,
and CELIA]
DUKE SENIOR	Dost thou believe, Orlando, that the boy
Can do all this that he hath promised?
ORLANDO	I sometimes do believe, and sometimes do not;
As those that fear they hope, and know they fear.
[Enter ROSALIND, SILVIUS, and PHEBE]
ROSALIND	Patience once more, whiles our compact is urged:
You say, if I bring in your Rosalind,
You will bestow her on Orlando here?
DUKE SENIOR	That would I, had I kingdoms to give with her.
ROSALIND	And you say, you will have her, when I bring her?
ORLANDO	That would I, were I of all kingdoms king.
ROSALIND	You say, you'll marry me, if I be willing?
PHEBE	That will I, should I die the hour after.
ROSALIND	But if you do refuse to marry me,
You'll give yourself to this most faithful shepherd?
PHEBE	So is the bargain.
ROSALIND	You say, that you'll have Phebe, if she will?
SILVIUS	Though to have her and death were both one thing.
ROSALIND	I have promised to make all this matter even.
Keep you your word, O duke, to give your daughter;
You yours, Orlando, to receive his daughter:
Keep your word, Phebe, that you'll marry me,
Or else refusing me, to wed this shepherd:
Keep your word, Silvius, that you'll marry her.
If she refuse me: and from hence I go,
To make these doubts all even.
[Exeunt ROSALIND and CELIA]
DUKE SENIOR	I do remember in this shepherd boy
Some lively touches of my daughter's favour.
ORLANDO	My lord, the first time that I ever saw him
Methought he was a brother to your daughter:
But, my good lord, this boy is forest-born,
And hath been tutor'd in the rudiments
Of many desperate studies by his uncle,
Whom he reports to be a great magician,
Obscured in the circle of this forest.
[Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY]
JAQUES	There is, sure, another flood toward, and these
couples are coming to the ark. Here comes a pair of
very strange beasts, which in all tongues are called fools.
TOUCHSTONE	Salutation and greeting to you all!
JAQUES	Good my lord, bid him welcome: this is the
motley-minded gentleman that I have so often met in
the forest: he hath been a courtier, he swears.
TOUCHSTONE	If any man doubt that, let him put me to my
purgation. I have trod a measure; I have flattered
a lady; I have been politic with my friend, smooth
with mine enemy; I have undone three tailors; I have
had four quarrels, and like to have fought one.
JAQUES	And how was that ta'en up?
TOUCHSTONE	Faith, we met, and found the quarrel was upon the
seventh cause.
JAQUES	How seventh cause? Good my lord, like this fellow.
DUKE SENIOR	I like him very well.
TOUCHSTONE	God 'ild you, sir; I desire you of the like. I
press in here, sir, amongst the rest of the country
copulatives, to swear and to forswear: according as
marriage binds and blood breaks: a poor virgin,
sir, an ill-favoured thing, sir, but mine own; a poor
humour of mine, sir, to take that that no man else
will: rich honesty dwells like a miser, sir, in a
poor house; as your pearl in your foul oyster.
DUKE SENIOR	By my faith, he is very swift and sententious.
TOUCHSTONE	According to the fool's bolt, sir, and such dulcet diseases.
JAQUES	But, for the seventh cause; how did you find the
quarrel on the seventh cause?
TOUCHSTONE	Upon a lie seven times removed:--bear your body more
seeming, Audrey:--as thus, sir. I did dislike the
cut of a certain courtier's beard: he sent me word,
if I said his beard was not cut well, he was in the
mind it was: this is called the Retort Courteous.
If I sent him word again 'it was not well cut,' he
would send me word, he cut it to please himself:
this is called the Quip Modest. If again 'it was
not well cut,' he disabled my judgment: this is
called the Reply Churlish. If again 'it was not
well cut,' he would answer, I spake not true: this
is called the Reproof Valiant. If again 'it was not
well cut,' he would say I lied: this is called the
Counter-cheque Quarrelsome: and so to the Lie
Circumstantial and the Lie Direct.
JAQUES	And how oft did you say his beard was not well cut?
TOUCHSTONE	I durst go no further than the Lie Circumstantial,
nor he durst not give me the Lie Direct; and so we
measured swords and parted.
JAQUES	Can you nominate in order now the degrees of the lie?
TOUCHSTONE	O sir, we quarrel in print, by the book; as you have
books for good manners: I will name you the degrees.
The first, the Retort Courteous; the second, the
Quip Modest; the third, the Reply Churlish; the
fourth, the Reproof Valiant; the fifth, the
Countercheque Quarrelsome; the sixth, the Lie with
Circumstance; the seventh, the Lie Direct. All
these you may avoid but the Lie Direct; and you may
avoid that too, with an If. I knew when seven
justices could not take up a quarrel, but when the
parties were met themselves, one of them thought but
of an If, as, 'If you said so, then I said so;' and
they shook hands and swore brothers. Your If is the
only peacemaker; much virtue in If.
JAQUES	Is not this a rare fellow, my lord? he's as good at
any thing and yet a fool.
DUKE SENIOR	He uses his folly like a stalking-horse and under
the presentation of that he shoots his wit.
[Enter HYMEN, ROSALIND, and CELIA]
[Still Music]
HYMEN	        Then is there mirth in heaven,
When earthly things made even
Atone together.
Good duke, receive thy daughter
Hymen from heaven brought her,
Yea, brought her hither,
That thou mightst join her hand with his
Whose heart within his bosom is.
ROSALIND	[To DUKE SENIOR]  To you I give myself, for I am yours.
[To ORLANDO]
To you I give myself, for I am yours.
DUKE SENIOR	If there be truth in sight, you are my daughter.
ORLANDO	If there be truth in sight, you are my Rosalind.
PHEBE	If sight and shape be true,
Why then, my love adieu!
ROSALIND	I'll have no father, if you be not he:
I'll have no husband, if you be not he:
Nor ne'er wed woman, if you be not she.
HYMEN	        Peace, ho! I bar confusion:
'Tis I must make conclusion
Of these most strange events:
Here's eight that must take hands
To join in Hymen's bands,
If truth holds true contents.
You and you no cross shall part:
You and you are heart in heart
You to his love must accord,
Or have a woman to your lord:
You and you are sure together,
As the winter to foul weather.
Whiles a wedlock-hymn we sing,
Feed yourselves with questioning;
That reason wonder may diminish,
How thus we met, and these things finish.
SONG.
Wedding is great Juno's crown:
O blessed bond of board and bed!
'Tis Hymen peoples every town;
High wedlock then be honoured:
Honour, high honour and renown,
To Hymen, god of every town!
DUKE SENIOR	O my dear niece, welcome thou art to me!
Even daughter, welcome, in no less degree.
PHEBE	I will not eat my word, now thou art mine;
Thy faith my fancy to thee doth combine.
[Enter JAQUES DE BOYS]
JAQUES DE BOYS	Let me have audience for a word or two:
I am the second son of old Sir Rowland,
That bring these tidings to this fair assembly.
Duke Frederick, hearing how that every day
Men of great worth resorted to this forest,
Address'd a mighty power; which were on foot,
In his own conduct, purposely to take
His brother here and put him to the sword:
And to the skirts of this wild wood he came;
Where meeting with an old religious man,
After some question with him, was converted
Both from his enterprise and from the world,
His crown bequeathing to his banish'd brother,
And all their lands restored to them again
That were with him exiled. This to be true,
I do engage my life.
DUKE SENIOR	Welcome, young man;
Thou offer'st fairly to thy brothers' wedding:
To one his lands withheld, and to the other
A land itself at large, a potent dukedom.
First, in this forest, let us do those ends
That here were well begun and well begot:
And after, every of this happy number
That have endured shrewd days and nights with us
Shall share the good of our returned fortune,
According to the measure of their states.
Meantime, forget this new-fall'n dignity
And fall into our rustic revelry.
Play, music! And you, brides and bridegrooms all,
With measure heap'd in joy, to the measures fall.
JAQUES	Sir, by your patience. If I heard you rightly,
The duke hath put on a religious life
And thrown into neglect the pompous court?
JAQUES DE BOYS	He hath.
JAQUES	To him will I : out of these convertites
There is much matter to be heard and learn'd.
[To DUKE SENIOR]
You to your former honour I bequeath;
Your patience and your virtue well deserves it:
[To ORLANDO]
You to a love that your true faith doth merit:
[To OLIVER]
You to your land and love and great allies:
[To SILVIUS]
You to a long and well-deserved bed:
[To TOUCHSTONE]
And you to wrangling; for thy loving voyage
Is but for two months victuall'd. So, to your pleasures:
I am for other than for dancing measures.
DUKE SENIOR	Stay, Jaques, stay.
JAQUES	To see no pastime I	what you would have
I'll stay to know at your abandon'd cave.
[Exit]
DUKE SENIOR	Proceed, proceed: we will begin these rites,
As we do trust they'll end, in true delights.
[A dance]
AS YOU LIKE IT
EPILOGUE
ROSALIND	It is not the fashion to see the lady the epilogue;
but it is no more unhandsome than to see the lord
the prologue. If it be true that good wine needs
no bush, 'tis true that a good play needs no
epilogue; yet to good wine they do use good bushes,
and good plays prove the better by the help of good
epilogues. What a case am I in then, that am
neither a good epilogue nor cannot insinuate with
you in the behalf of a good play! I am not
furnished like a beggar, therefore to beg will not
become me: my way is to conjure you; and I'll begin
with the women. I charge you, O women, for the love
you bear to men, to like as much of this play as
please you: and I charge you, O men, for the love
you bear to women--as I perceive by your simpering,
none of you hates them--that between you and the
women the play may please. If I were a woman I
would kiss as many of you as had beards that pleased
me, complexions that liked me and breaths that I
defied not: and, I am sure, as many as have good
beards or good faces or sweet breaths will, for my
kind offer, when I make curtsy, bid me farewell.
[Exeunt]
t.